---
menu:
  docs:
    parent: compliance
title: IPv6, HTTPS, DNSSEC, and Certificates
---

Here's what cloud.gov does to support relevant federal standards and recommendations, for applications on `*.app.cloud.gov` and [custom domains]({{< relref "docs/apps/custom-domains.md" >}}).

## IPv6

cloud.gov has basic support for IPv6. cloud.gov supports two types of application access, external and internal. External access is when traffic reaches an application from outside the cloud.gov platform, such as from an office, external application, or user. Internal traffic is traffic which leverages the platform's internal DNS to allow applications to communicate without ever leaving the platform's network boundaries. IPv6 is supported for external access. For internal access, only IPv4 is supported. When you deploy a new application, for external IPv6 traffic, you do not have to take any action, and most applications will know to use IPv4 internally as cloud.gov's internal DNS provider will leverage IPv4. If you have more questions or security questions, please contact [Support](mailto:cloud-gov-support@gsa.gov).

## HTTPS

cloud.gov ensures all applications are accessible only over HTTPS with [HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) headers](https://https.cio.gov/hsts/) in accordance with the [HTTPS-Only Standard](https://https.cio.gov/). Any HTTP requests are permanantly redirected to HTTPS. You don't have to take any action.

### [HSTS preloading](https://https.cio.gov/guide/#options-for-hsts-compliance)

cloud.gov sets [`Strict-Transport-Security`]({{< relref "docs/apps/headers.md" >}}) headers for all applications by default, and has added the `cloud.gov` domain/subdomains to the HSTS preload list for most major browsers.

You are responsible for setting up HSTS preloading for your [custom domain]({{< relref "docs/apps/custom-domains.md" >}}). cloud.gov doesn't set this up for you. If you need HSTS preloading, follow [the guidance from the maintainers of the HSTS preload list](https://hstspreload.org/#opt-in). The HTTPS-Only Standard encourages HSTS preloading.

*Additional details are available in the [cloud.gov FedRAMP P-ATO documentation package]({{< relref "docs/security/fedramp-tracker.md#how-you-can-use-this-p-ato" >}}), including in System Security Plan controls SC-8, SC-12, and SC-20.*

## DNSSEC

cloud.gov does not currently support DNSSEC on `cloud.gov` domains. For example, an application at `*.app.cloud.gov` would not support DNSSEC.

[OMB memo M-18-230, page 12,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/M-18-23.pdf) rescinds M-08-23, the OMB memo that originally mandated DNSSEC for federal systems. You should review that memo and consider whether DNSSEC is still a requirement for your system.

If you do need DNSSEC for your custom domain, you are responsible for configuring DNSSEC in your DNS system. cloud.gov can't configure DNSSEC for you because cloud.gov does not have access to your DNS system. 

cloud.gov supports mapping your DNSSEC-enabled custom domain to your applications hosted on cloud.gov -- see [DNSSEC support for the CDN service]({{< relref "docs/services/cdn-route.md#dnssec-support" >}}) and [DNSSEC support for the custom domain service]({{< relref "docs/services/custom-domains.md#dnssec-support" >}}).

*Additional details are available the cloud.gov System Security Plan, including controls SC-20, SC-21, SC-22, and SC-23.*

## Certificates and Ciphers

cloud.gov's TLS certificate is issued by a third party, the open-source vendor [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Let's Encrypt supports broader use of HTTPS by allowing individuals, companies, or agencies to request free TLS certificates in an automated fashion. cloud.gov delegates the certificate provisioning to Let's Encrypt including the
the ciphers, certificate validity, or other algorithms used during the certificate creation process.

Once our certificates have been generated by Let's Encrypt, we upload them to our public-facing load balancers with the Amazon Web Security (AWS) SSL/TLS policy denoted as: [`ELBSecurityPolicy-TLS-1-2-2017-01`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/elb-security-policy-table.html). The ciphers supported when connecting to cloud.gov are defined by AWS and we inherit those configurations. The ciphers may be identified by some automated scanners as "weak", but they are all compliant with [NIST Special Publication 800-52r2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf), including those implementing cipher-block chaining (CBC).

Let's Encrypt allows the cloud.gov team to bring a full HTTPS/TLS experience (along with all the compliance requirements) to customers at both no-cost and with full certificate authority validity. Let's Encrypt has partnered with IdenTrust to have their intermediate certificates cross-signed by IdenTrust, who has partnered with nearly all major vendors, to ship their products with Let's Encrypt root certificates. So nearly every browser, programming language and operating system automatically trusts Let's Encrypt certificates. This is a major benefit to cloud.gov and our customer as cross-signed intermediate certificates can be cost-prohibitive to acquire.

Any support requests or questions regarding our TLS configuration are welcome at [cloud-gov-support@gsa.gov](mailto:cloud-gov-support@gsa.gov?subject=TLS%20Certificate%20Questions). You can also find more about how Let's Encrypt works via their [public documentation](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/).
