---
menu:
  docs:
    parent: experimental
title: Dynamic behavior monitoring
---

[**This is an experimental feature.**]({{< relref "docs/apps/experimental/experimental.md" >}})

_Note: As of March 2018, this feature is not yet available, pending FedRAMP approval. If you want to use this feature, create a ticket and our team will let you know our estimated timeline for approval._

cloud.gov includes a range of [security features](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/container-security.html) to prevent application containers from interfering with other containers or with the hosts they run on. As an additional security measure, cloud.gov also monitors application containers for suspicous behavior using [Sysdig Falco](https://sysdig.com/opensource/falco/). If an application container exhibits unexpected behavior, cloud.gov will take action.

## What counts as suspicous behavior?

We are using [the default Falco ruleset](https://github.com/draios/falco/blob/dev/rules/falco_rules.yaml). We will add to our ruleset over time, particularly to flag [behavior which is not compatible with the existing container security restrictions](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/container-security.html#hardening).

## What happens when suspicious behavior is detected?

cloud.gov will append a log entry associated with the application that describes what was observed. For example, an attempt to create a directory within a protected path like `/bin` will result in a log entry like this:

```
2018-03-22T09:36:17.13-0400 [FALCO/0] ERR 13:36:17.084775186: Error Directory below known binary directory created (user=<NA> command=mkdir -p /bin/hack directory=/bin/hack) (pid=<redacted>, ppid=<redacted>) (pid=<redacted>, ppid=<redacted>)
```

You can view logs generated by this feature just like any other application logs, using `cf logs` or at https://logs.fr.cloud.gov.

We plan to restart applications that are flagged for particularly suspicious behavior to reset them to their original state and deny a foothold to attackers. This will not affect your application's availability so long as you have more than one instance running.
