---
menu:
  docs:
    parent: advanced
title: Custom domains
---

Here's how to put your app on your project's custom domain name. For context, [Cloud Foundry's Routes and Domains documentation](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/routes-domains.html) explains the overall model and terminology that cloud.gov uses.

The [Manual Method](#manual-method) is available to all users.

{{% govcloud %}}
We've also developed a [Managed Service Method](#managed-service-method).
{{% /govcloud %}}

Both options support IPv6.

For all custom domains, we recommend incorporating [HTTPS-Only Standard guidance](https://https.cio.gov/), including [HSTS](https://https.cio.gov/hsts/) and [preloading](https://https.cio.gov/guide/#options-for-hsts-compliance).

If your application requires DNSSEC, you are responsible for ensuring your custom domain is DNSSEC-enabled before following these instructions.

If you need to set up an app on a domain managed by GSA TTS, you may also be interested in [18F/dns](https://github.com/18F/dns).

## Manual Method

Send a request to cloud.gov support (cloud-gov-support@gsa.gov for any customer, or [#cloud-gov-support](https://18f.slack.com/messages/cloud-gov-support) for 18F staff) to tell us you want to set up a custom domain. Include your domain and org name.

We'll configure your org to make your domain available for use with that org, and we'll tell you the entry to put in your DNS. Next you'll set up your application route, as explained in the next section.

### Application Routes

Use `cf domains` to list the domains that are available to you, to confirm that we configured your org correctly.

Use your application manifest.yml to identify the domain where the application route should be created.

For example, if you want to make your app available as a subdomain of your domain:

	---
	...
	- name: myapp
	  domain: domain.tld

That will create the route `myapp.domain.tld` for your application. Alternatively, you can specify a specific hostname for your app separate from the application name within CF. For example:

	---
	...
	- name: myapp
	  host: frontend
	  domain: domain.tld

That will create the route `frontend.domain.tld` for your application.

If you want to make your app available simply as a domain (without a subdomain), for example as `domain.tld`, put `.` under `host`.

#### Hostless Routes

Here's how to route a delegated domain (or subdomain) to a CF app, for example if you've been delegated `domain.tld` or `app.parent.tld`.

First send us a support request to ask us to make the domain available in your org.

Then, you can create the route and map it to your application, for example:

	cf map-route myapp domain.tld

Or:

	cf map-route myapp app.parent.tld

[API](http://apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/206/routes/associate_app_with_the_route.html)

{{% govcloud %}}
## Managed Service Method

See the [CDN Route service page]({{< relref "docs/services/cdn-route.md" >}}) for more information.

cloud.gov offers a managed service that allows you to forward a domain you control to a cloud.gov application using [AWS CloudFront](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/). Traffic is encrypted using an SSL certificate generated by [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).

1. Target the space your application is running in.

    ```bash
    $ cf target -o <org> -s <space>
    ```

1. Create a service instance. Replace *my-app.apps.cloud.gov* with the  domain that has been automatically assigned to your app by cloud.gov.

    ```
    $ cf create-service cdn-route cdn-route my-cdn-route \
        -c '{"domain": "my.domain.gov", "origin": "my-app.fr.cloud.gov"}'

    Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service my-cdn-route' to check operation status.
    ```

    If you have more than one domain you can pass a comma-delimited list to the `domain` parameter, just keep in mind that the broker will wait until all domains are CNAME'd:

    ```
    $ cf create-service cdn-route cdn-route my-cdn-route \
        -c '{"domain": "my.domain.gov,www.my.domain.gov", "origin": "my-app.fr.cloud.gov"}'

    Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service my-cdn-route' to check operation status.
    ```

1. Get the DNS instructions.

    ```
    $ cf service my-cdn-route

    Last Operation
    Status: create in progress
    Message: Provisioning in progress; CNAME domain "my.domain.gov" to "d3kajwa62y9xrp.cloudfront.net."
    ```

1. Create/update your DNS configuration.
1. Wait up to 30 minutes for the CloudFront distribution to be provisioned and the DNS changes to propagate.
1. Visit `my.domain.gov`, and see that you have a valid certificate (i.e. that visiting your site in a modern browser doesn't give you a certificate warning).
{{% /govcloud %}}
